# The *putative* complexity threshold of random 3-SAT

## Description of constant

Let $m,n$ be positive integers and let $V$ be a set of $n$ Boolean variables. By a random 3-SAT formula of density $m/n$, we mean a collection of $m$ clauses selected u.a.r. with replacement from the set of $8{{n}\choose{3}}$ clauses on three distinct variables from $V$.   

It is conjectured, and corroborated by experimental results (see e.g. [LT1992]) and non-rigorous considerations of Statistical Physics (see e.g. [MZ1997]), that there is a constant $r_3 \approx 4.2$, here to be denoted also by $C_{52}$, such that for random instances of 3SAT with constant density $r =m/n$  we have that    
$$\mbox{if } r > r_3, \mbox{ then } \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}\Pr[ \phi \mbox{ is satisfiable}] =0,$$ 
whereas
$$\mbox{if } r < r_3, \mbox{ then } \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}\Pr[ \phi \mbox{ is satisfiable}] =1.$$

It has been proved by Friedgut [F1999] that there is a bounded sequence $r_{3,n}$ such that
$$\mbox{if } r > \limsup_{n \rightarrow \infty} r_{3,n}, \mbox{ then } \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}\Pr[ \phi \mbox{ is satisfiable}] =0,$$
whereas 
$$\mbox{if } r < \liminf_{n \rightarrow \infty} r_{3,n}, \mbox{ then } \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}\Pr[ \phi \mbox{ is satisfiable}] =1.$$

Below we give the rigorously proved  upper bounds for $\limsup_{n \rightarrow \infty} r_{3,n}$ and the rigorously proved   lower bounds for 
$\liminf_{n \rightarrow \infty} r_{3,n}$

## Known upper bounds

| Bound | Reference  | Comments |
| 5.191 | [FP1983]   | Direct first-moment method |
| 5.081 | [MV1995]   |--|
| 4.758 | [KMPS1995] |--|
[ 4.643 | [DB1997]   |--|
| 4.506 | [DBM2000]  |--|
| 4.596 | [JSV2000]  |--|
| 4.571 | [KKSVZ2007]|--|
| 4.453 | [MS2008]   |--|
| 4.490 | [DKMP2009] |--|



## Known lower bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |

## Additional comments

[Can add links to other problems here]

## References
- [LT1992] T. Larrabee and Y. Tsuji, Evidence for satisfiability threshold for random 3CNF
formulas, Tech. Rep. UCSC-CRL-92-42, University of California, Santa Cruz, 1992.

- [MZ1997] R. Monasson and R. Zecchina,  Statistical mechanics of the random $K$-satisfiability model, *Physical Review E*, 56(2), 1357-1370, 1997.

- [F1999] E. Friedgut, appendix by J. Bourgain, Sharp thresholds of graph properties, and the $k$-SAT problem, *J. Amer. Math. Soc.* 12,  1017-1054, 1999. 

- [FP1983] J. Franco and M. Paull, Probabilistic analysis of the Davis Putman procedure for
solving the satisfiability problem, *Discrete Appl. Math.* 5,  77-87, 1983. 

- [MV1995] A. El Maftouhi, and W.F. De La Vega, On random 3-SAT, *Combinatorics, Probability and Computing* 4(3), 189-195, 1995.

- [KMPS1995] A. Kamath, R. Motwani, K. Palem, and P. Spirakis, Tail bounds for occupancy and the
satisfiability threshold conjecture,  *Random Structures & Algorithms* 7(1), 59-80, 1995.

- [DB1997] O. Dubois, Y. Boufkhad, A general upper bound for the satisfiability threshold of random $r$-SAT formulae, *Journal of algorithms*, 24(2), 395-420, 1997.

- [DBM2000] O. Dubois, Y Boufkhad, and J. Mandler, Typical random 3-SAT formulae and the satisfiability threshold, Proceedings of the 11th ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, 2000. Also in: arXiv preprint arXiv: cs/0211036 (2002).

- [JSV2000] S. Janson, Y.C. Stamatiou, M. Vamvakari, Bounding the unsatisfiability threshold of random 3-SAT, *Random Structures & Algorithms* 17(2), 103-116, 2000. 

- [KKSVZ2007] A. Kaporis, L.M. Kirousis, Y.C. Stamatiou, M. Vamvakari, and M. Zito. The unsatisfiability threshold revisited, *Discrete applied mathematics* 155(12), 1525-1538, 2007.

- [MV2008] E. Maneva, and A. Sinclair,  On the satisfiability threshold and clustering of solutions of random 3-SAT formulas, *Theoretical Computer Science* 407(1-3), 359-369, 2008.

- [DKMP2009] J. Díaz, L. Kirousis, D. Mitsche, and X. Pérez-Giménez, On the satisfiability threshold of formulas with three literals per clause,  *Theoretical Computer Science*, 410(30-32), 2920-2934, 2009.

## Contribution notes

[List any AI tools or other assistance used to prepare this submission.  Remove this section if not applicable.  Minor AI uses, such as spellcheck or autocomplete, do not need to be disclosed.]
